# Algorithm 8회

## 1. AmusingJoke(A)

Keyword|출처
-|-
String|코드포스

* time limit per test: 2 seconds
* memory limit per test: 256 megabytes
* input: standard input
* outputs: tandard output

So, the New Year holidays are over. Santa Claus and his colleagues can take a rest and have guests at last. When two "New Year and Christmas Men" meet, thear assistants cut out of cardboard the letters from the guest's name and the host's name in honor of this event. Then the hung the letters above the main entrance. One night, when everyone went to bed, someone took all the letters of our characters' names. Then he may have shuffled the letters and put them in one pile in front of the door.

The next morning it was impossible to find the culprit who had made the disorder. But everybody wondered whether it is possible to restore the names of the host and his guests from the letters lying at the door? That is, we need to verify that there are no extra letters, and that nobody will need to cut more letters.

Help the "New Year and Christmas Men" and their friends to cope with this problem. You are given both inscriptions that hung over the front door the previous night, and a pile of letters that were found at the front door next morning.

**Input**

The input file consists of three lines: the first line contains the guest's name, the second line contains the name of the residence host and the third line contains letters in a pile that were found at the door in the morning. All lines are not empty and contain only uppercase Latin letters. The length of each line does not exceed 100.

**Output**

Print "YES" without the quotes, if the letters in the pile could be permuted to make the names of the "New Year and Christmas Men". Otherwise, print "NO" without the quotes.

**Example**

Input|Output
-|-
SANTACLAUS <br>DEDMOROZ <br>SANTAMOROZDEDCLAUS | YES
PAPAINOEL<br>JOULUPUKKI<br>JOULNAPAOILELUPUKKI|NO
BABBONATALE<br>FATHERCHRISTMAS<br>BABCHRISTMASBONATALLEFATHER|NO

**풀이**

```python

def solution(name1, name2, name3):
  from collections import Counter, OrderedDict

  map1 = Counter(name1)
  map2 = Counter(name2)
  map_jumLtr = OrderedDict(Counter(name3))

  if (OrderedDict(map1+map2) == map_jumLtr):
    return "YES"

  else:
    return "NO"
```

---


## 2. Arrival of the General(A)

Keyword|출처
-|-
Sorting|코드포스

time limit per test:2 seconds
memory limit per test:256 megabytes
input:standard input
output:standard output

A Ministry for Defense sent a general to inspect the Super Secret Military Squad under the command of the Colonel SuperDuper. Having learned the news, the colonel ordered to all n squad soldiers to line up on the parade ground.

By the military charter the soldiers should stand in the order of non-increasing of their height. But as there's virtually no time to do that, the soldiers lined up in the arbitrary order. However, the general is rather short-sighted and he thinks that the soldiers lined up correctly if the first soldier in the line has the maximum height and the last soldier has the minimum height. Please note that the way other solders are positioned does not matter, including the case when there are several soldiers whose height is maximum or minimum. Only the heights of the first and the last soldier are important.

For example, the general considers the sequence of heights (4, 3, 4, 2, 1, 1) correct and the sequence (4, 3, 1, 2, 2) wrong.

Within one second the colonel can swap any two neighboring soldiers. Help him count the minimum time needed to form a line-up which the general will consider correct.

**Input**

The first input line contains the only integer n (2 ≤ n ≤ 100) which represents the number of soldiers in the line. The second line contains integers a1, a2, ..., an (1 ≤ ai ≤ 100) the values of the soldiers' heights in the order of soldiers' heights' increasing in the order from the beginning of the line to its end. The numbers are space-separated. Numbers a1, a2, ..., an are not necessarily different.

**Output**

Print the only integer — the minimum number of seconds the colonel will need to form a line-up the general will like.

**Example**

Input|Output
-|-
4<br>33 44 11 22|2
7<br>10 10 58 31 63 40 76|10

**Note**

In the first sample the colonel will need to swap the first and second soldier and then the third and fourth soldier. That will take 2 seconds. The resulting position of the soldiers is (44, 33, 22, 11).

In the second sample the colonel may swap the soldiers in the following sequence:

1. (10, 10, 58, 31, 63, 40, 76)
2. (10, 58, 10, 31, 63, 40, 76)
3. (10, 58, 10, 31, 63, 76, 40)
4. (10, 58, 10, 31, 76, 63, 40)
5. (10, 58, 31, 10, 76, 63, 40)
6. (10, 58, 31, 76, 10, 63, 40)
7. (10, 58, 31, 76, 63, 10, 40)
8. (10, 58, 76, 31, 63, 10, 40)
9.  (10, 76, 58, 31, 63, 10, 40)
10. (76, 10, 58, 31, 63, 10, 40)
11. (76, 10, 58, 31, 63, 40, 10)

**풀이**

```python
def solve(n, heights):

    maxVal = heights[0]
    maxValIdx = 0
    minVal = heights[n-1]
    minValIdx = n-1

    for i in xrange(0, n):
        if heights[i] > maxVal:
            maxVal = heights[i]
            maxValIdx = i

        if heights[i] <= minVal:
            minVal = heights[i]
            minValIdx = i

    swaps = maxValIdx
    swaps += (n - 1) - minValIdx

    if maxValIdx > minValIdx:
        swaps -= 1

    return swaps
```


---


## 3. Bear and Big Brother(A)

* time limit per test: 1 second
* memory limit per test: 256 megabytes
* inputs: tandard input
* outputs: tandard output

Bear Limak wants to become the largest of bears, or at least to become larger than his brother Bob.

Right now, Limak and Bob weigh a and b respectively. It's guaranteed that Limak's weight is smaller than or equal to his brother's weight.

Limak eats a lot and his weight is tripled after every year, while Bob's weight is doubled after every year.

After how many full years will Limak become strictly larger (strictly heavier) than Bob?

**Input**

The only line of the input contains two integers a and b (1 ≤ a ≤ b ≤ 10) — the weight of Limak and the weight of Bob respectively.

**Output**

Print one integer, denoting the integer number of years after which Limak will become strictly larger than Bob.

**Examples**

Input|Output
-|-
4 7 |2
4 9 |3
1 1 |1

**Note**

In the first sample, Limak weighs 4 and Bob weighs 7 initially. After one year their weights are 4·3 = 12 and 7·2 = 14 respectively (one weight is tripled while the other one is doubled). Limak isn't larger than Bob yet. After the second year weights are 36 and 28, so the first weight is greater than the second one. Limak became larger than Bob after two years so you should print 2.

In the second sample, Limak's and Bob's weights in next years are: 12 and 18, then 36 and 36, and finally 108 and 72 (after three years). The answer is 3. Remember that Limak wants to be larger than Bob and he won't be satisfied with equal weights.

In the third sample, Limak becomes larger than Bob after the first year. Their weights will be 3 and 2 then.

**풀이**

```python
def solve(l, b):

    years = 0

    while l <= b:
        l *= 3
        b *= 2
        years += 1

    return years
```

---

## 4. Taxi(B)

* time limit per test: 3 seconds
* memory limit per test: 256 megabytes
* input: standard input
* output: standard output

After the lessons n groups of schoolchildren went outside and decided to visit Polycarpus to celebrate his birthday. We know that the i-th group consists of si friends (1 ≤ si ≤ 4), and they want to go to Polycarpus together. They decided to get there by taxi. Each car can carry at most four passengers. What minimum number of cars will the children need if all members of each group should ride in the same taxi (but one taxi can take more than one group)?

**Input**

The first line contains integer n (1 ≤ n ≤ 105) — the number of groups of schoolchildren. The second line contains a sequence of integers s1, s2, ..., sn (1 ≤ si ≤ 4). The integers are separated by a space, si is the number of children in the i-th group.

**Output**

Print the single number — the minimum number of taxis necessary to drive all children to Polycarpus.

**Example**

Input|Output
-|-
5<br>1 2 4 3 3 |4
8<br>2 3 4 4 2 1 3 1|5

**Note**
In the first test we can sort the children into four cars like this:

the third group (consisting of four children),
the fourth group (consisting of three children),
the fifth group (consisting of three children),
the first and the second group (consisting of one and two children, correspondingly).
There are other ways to sort the groups into four cars.

```python

def solve(n,students):
    d = defaultdict(int)
    for i in students:
        d[i] +=1
    
    taxiCount = 0

    taxiCount+= d[4]+d[3]

    d[1]-=d[3]

    taxiCount+= (d[2]/2)

    if(d[2]%2>0):
        taxiCount+=1

        d[1]-=2

    if(d[1]>0):
        taxiCount+=(d[1]/4)

        if(d[1]%4>0):
            taxiCount+=1

    return taxiCount
```
